Venerable Ones, the seven adhikarana-samatha dharmas have been recited by me. Therefore, I ask the Venerable Ones – Are y
ou completely pure in this matter?A second and also a third time I ask-Are you completely pure in this matter?Since ther
e is silence, the Venerable Ones are completely pure in this matter. Thus do I understand.

1. Enduring patience is the highest austerity, Nirvāṇa is the highest, say the Buddhas;for he who harms others is not a m
onk, he who violates others is not a śramaṇa.2. Just as one endowed with sight, in exerting effort, [should avoid] misco
nduct;so the wise man should avoid the evils in the world of men.3. Not censuring [others], not harming others, and rest
raint according to the Prātimokṣa;moderation in eating, secluded dwelling, and union with adhicitta; this is the Teachin
g of the Buddhas,4. As a bee, not agitating the scent or color of a flower, flies away, taking [only] the nectar; so sho
uld a sage enter a village.5. [One should not contemplate] the faults of others, or what is done and not done by others;
but one should contemplate the same difficulties concerning himself.6. For the wise one, trained in the steps of sagehoo
d, there is no delight in superior intellect;for the tranquil protector, always mindful, there are no sorrows.7. Merit i
ncreases for one who gives, enmitydoes not accumulate for one who is well restrained;the virtuous one renounces evil, an
d because of putting an end to the kleśas, attains bliss, 8. Not to do any evil, to attain good, to completely subdue on
e's own mind;this is the Teaching of the Buddhas,9. Restraint of the body is good, restraint of speech is good, and rest
raint in all regards is good;the monk who is restrained in all regards is released from all suffering.10. He who guards 
his speech, is well restrained in his mind, and does not perform evil with his body;being purified regarding the paths o
f action in these three, shall attain the road proclaimed by the ṛṣis.11 and 12. This Prātimokṣa was recited in detail b
y these seven celebrated, self-possessed Buddhas who were the chief protectors and guardians of the world:Vipaśyin, Śikh
in, Viśvabhu, Krakucchanda, Kanakamuni, Kāśyapa, and immediately following, Śākyamuni Gautama, the God of Gods, the char
ioteer who subdued men.13. The Buddhas and Śrāvakas of the Buddhas are respectful toward it [i.e., the Prātimokṣa];being
respectful toward it, one obtains the unconditioned path.14. Go forth, cling to, employ the Teaching of the Buddhas;des
troy the army of the Lord of Death, like an elephant [destroys] a house of reeds.15. One who will diligently engage in t
his Dharma and Vinaya, having abandoned birth and samsara,shall put an end to suffering.16. This Prātimokṣa has been rec
ited, and Poṣadha made by the saṃgha, for the increase of the Teaching,and for the sake of mutual protection of Śīla.17.
For the sake of those for whom the Sūtra has been recited, and for the sake of those for whom Poṣadha has been made,you
should guard Sila, as a yak protects its first-born.18. Whatever merit has been gained from the full exposition of the 
Prātimokṣa,by that may this entire world obtain the position of the Chief of Sages.

The Prātimokṣa is concluded.

